# Milestone Project 1 "The 8-Bit Bar & Restaurant"

## Project Goal
The aim was to produce a website showcasing the services and social aspects of a bar and restaurant that had additional facilities for software developers, studients and anyone just needing a quieter place to relax. 

## Business Goals
The business needed to reach more potential customers and have a platform to inform them of upcoming events and past tournament results.

## Initial Design: Concept
The design concept was to focus on mobile devices first to enable potential customers to discover the bar and restaurant more easily. Modern trends show that the majority of searches for venues for places to eat or drink out are made primarily on a mobile phones.
In addition, the base design would attempt to show any potential new customers the fun and friendly atmosphere generated by the staff and regular customers, whilst also being informative of the services and activities on offer, but without overwhelming the website vistor with needless information.

## Initial Design: Wireframes

Balsamiq application was utilised to develop the design format and layout.

Here are the links to all of the initial wireframe designs:

[Phone home page](<assets/images/Index Phone.png>)

[Tablet home page](<assets/images/Index Tablet.png>)

[Desktop home page](<assets/images/Index Desktop.png>) 

[Phone menu page](<assets/images/Menu Phone.png>)

[Tablet menu page](<assets/images/Menu Tablet.png>)

[Desktop menu page](<assets/images/Menu Desktop.png>)

[Phone events page](<assets/images/Events Phone.png>)

[Tablet events page](<assets/images/Events Tablet.png>)

[Desktop events page](<assets/images/Events Desktop.png>)

[Phone tournaments page](<assets/images/Tournaments Phone.png>)

[Tablet tournaments page](<assets/images/Tournaments Tablet.png>)

[Desktop tournaments page](<assets/images/Tournaments Desktop.png>)

Being the first time I had used Balsamiq, I feel that I have not got the best out of the application to protray the design as well as I would have liked, but I am sure that in time with more practice I will be able to get more out of the application.


## Current Features
The current features in place within the website are as follows: 
* Responsive framework (to allow for different screen sizes).
* Responsive navbar.
* Carousel image galleries.
* Results table.
* Social media links.

## Future Features
Features under consideration to be implemented in the future are:
* Submission form (for restaurant bookings).
* Interactive map (to assist the customer in finding the business location).

## Technologies Used
The development of the project started out on the platform "codeanywhere", but unfortunately after countless issues and hours of work lost the decision was made to restart the coding process again from scratch with vscode. 
Vscode came with another set of issues, namely either being unable to preview the code or only being able to work on the code locally. These issues were eventually solved with the extensions; Git & GitHub Extension Pack, Live Preview, Git Extention Pack and GitHub Repositories.
Regular pushes to GitHub were made once the above issues were resolved.

In addition to HTML5 and CSS3, Bootstrap 5.3.2 was also utilised, along with some minor style elements added with the help of Font Awesome and Google Fonts.

## Testing

### HTML
Base code testing was conducted on the W3.org validator.
The first pass on each page raised issues on all html pages with regards to additional script closing tags prior to the closing body tags. - These tags were deleted.

Additionally in the "about", "menu" and "events" sections it was flagged up that there was inappropriate use of line breaks after every list item and section of text. - These line breaks were removed and appropriate padding-bottom spacing was added to achieve the desired look.

The second HTML pass results can be viewed [here.](<assets\testing\html_check.pdf>)

### CSS
CSS testing was also conducted on the W3.org validator.

The first and only CSS check resulted in no errors or warnings. The check results can be viewed [here.](<assets\testing\css_check.pdf>)

### Performance

Performance testing was conducted through Chrome's developer tools utilising the Lighthouse tool.

The full report can be seen [here.](<assets\testing\performance.pdf>)

### Testing Conclusion

The performance testing results highlight the original design approach towards mobile devices first. 
Although there are still some room for improvement, I am relatively happy given that this is my first independent attempt of this kind of website design.

I can already see that I have a good base to work from in the future, I just need to work on the performance side of the site to create a more professional product.

## Deployment
Deployment of this project to GitHub Pages was undertaken with the following steps:

1. Log into GitHub account.
2. Selected thestevedore/milestone1 from the repositories list on the dashboard (this list is also available from the dropdown menu near the top left corner of the page).
3. The 'settings' was selected from the repository menu near the top of the page.
4. Under the section 'Code and automation' the option 'Pages' was selected which opened the GitHub Pages settings page.
5. Under the 'Build and deployment' section, the 'Source' was set to 'Deploy from a branch' via the dropdown menu.
6. Still within the 'Build and deployment' section, the 'Branch' was set to 'main' via the dropdown menu and then 'Save' was selected.
7. Reselecting the 'Pages' option from the menu refreshed the page and displayed the link to the deployed website towards the top of the page. In this case the link is: [https://thestevedore.github.io/milestone1/]

At the time of project submission, all material submitted and deployed is identical.

## How to run this project locally

To work on the project code within a local IDE such as vsCode:

1. Use this link to the [GitHub repository.](https://github.com/thestevedore/milestone1)
2. Click on the green 'code' button.
3. In the pop-up, select the HTTPs section and then copy the clone URL for this repository.
4. In your own local IDE, open up a terminal.
5. Change the current working directory to the location where you would like the cloned directory to be created.
6. Type git clone, and then paste the URL you copied from Step 3. 
In this case: git clone https://github.com/thestevedore/milestone1.git
7. Press Enter and your local clone will be created.

Further reading and troubleshooting on cloning a repository from GitHub [here.](https://help.github.com/en/articles/cloning-a-repository)

## Credits

### Images

All images sourced from [pixels.com](https://www.pexels.com/)

All images have retained their original filenames to easily attribute the artists to their work.

The contributing image artists are:
* Camille Camila
* Cottonbro Studio
* Darline Alderson
* David Bartus
* Elli
* Foodie Factor
* Furkanfdemir
* Gaby Tenda
* Markus Winkler
* Mart Production
* Pixabay
* Rachel Claire
* Rene Strgar
* Robin Stickel

### Video

All videos were sourced from [pixels.com](https://www.pexels.com/)

All videos have retained their original filenames to easily attribute the artists to their work.

The contributing videos artist was Deniz Bostanov.

### Code

Scripts taken for Bootstrap enablement were found at its respective website:
* [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/)

Font Awesome enablement required an account set up prior to obtaining a kit to copy and paste into the code:

* [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/kits)

Credit for the trademark symbol used goes to w3schools.com, with the relative page found [here.](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_symbols.asp)

The table used on the 'Tournaments' page was sourced from [bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/content/tables/) and was later edited for some style and content changes.

The initial code for the modal was sourced from [bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/components/modal/) and was later edited for style and content changes.

## Acknowledgements 

* I would like to take this opportunity to thank a fellow studient, Nathan Fisher, for pointing me in the right direction to getting the required vscode extensions to make it all work as needed for comfortable code development.

* I would also like to thank my mentor, Mitko Bachvarov for his advise at the concept stage of the project. Unfortunately this ended being his only input due to my losing so much time to work on the project through sickness (bronchitis) and work commitments.

## Additional Notes
* I was unsure just how much content to put into this project, as the marking criteria states that you cannot obtain credit for the same repeated elements in later projects and whilst I am sure that I will learn about additional content to add into later projects futher down the line, I also did not want to restrict myself in later projects.

### Disclaimer

The content of this project/website is for educational purposes only.